.TH GHOSTCTL 1 "June 2026" "ghostctl" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ghostctl \- Linux system, homelab, and virtualization management toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ghostctl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ghostctl
is a modular command-line toolkit for Linux administration workflows including system maintenance, Docker, networking, storage, Proxmox, VFIO, UEFI, security, monitoring, local AI models, threat intelligence, package auditing, screencapture, and development environments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -H, --headless
Run without interactive prompts.
.TP
.B -n, --non-interactive
Alias for --headless.
.TP
.B -D, --dry-run
Show what would be done without making changes.
.TP
.B -y, --yes
Automatically answer yes to prompts.
.TP
.B -p, --plain
Use plain output without colors or emoji.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Show version.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B completion <bash|zsh|fish>
Generate shell completions.
.TP
.B support paths
Show GhostCTL state, support, and log paths.
.TP
.B support doctor
Run quick support readiness checks for state paths, log paths, and visible external tools.
.TP
.B support logs
Show recent GhostCTL activity logs.
.TP
.B support bundle [--output PATH] [--redact-paths] [--gzip|--tarball] [--log-tail LINES]
Write a support diagnostics bundle plus JSON metadata sidecar. By default bundles are written under the XDG state directory, normally ~/.local/state/ghostctl/support.
.TP
.B support bundle --redact-paths
Redact home directory paths and common local identifiers before sharing bundle output.
.TP
.B support bundle --tarball
Write a tar.gz archive containing the text report and JSON metadata.
.TP
.B list
List available commands.
.TP
.B version
Show detailed version information.
.TP
.B config <show|edit|path|reset>
Manage ghostctl's own configuration file (\fI~/.config/ghostctl/config.toml\fR): print all resolved sections (\fBshow\fR), open it in \fB$EDITOR\fR (\fBedit\fR), print its path (\fBpath\fR), or regenerate defaults (\fBreset\fR).
.TP
.B monitor <health|targets|alerts|logs|tail|query|reload|datasources>
Query a Prometheus, Loki, Alertmanager, and Grafana observability stack. Aliased as \fBmon\fR.
.TP
.B ai <status|models|pull|rm|show|ctx-check|run|ps|tune|hermes>
Manage a local Ollama instance and run prompts; integrates with the Hermes agent CLI. \fBrun\fR accepts per-request tuning flags (\fB--ctx\fR, \fB--temp\fR, \fB--num-predict\fR, \fB--seed\fR). \fBtune <show|recommend|apply>\fR inspects and applies the Ollama systemd override environment (server-level performance tuning); \fBapply\fR requires sudo and restarts the ollama service.
.TP
.B crowdsec <feed|metrics|cli|dns>
Inspect CrowdSec threat intelligence, LAPI metrics, and DNS resolver health.
.TP
.B obs <doctor|portal|vcam|nvenc|screencast>
Set up and diagnose Wayland screencapture (xdg-desktop-portal + PipeWire), the OBS virtual camera (v4l2loopback), and NVIDIA NVENC encoding.
.TP
.B audit <cve|aur|pkgbuild|ioc|cargo|node|deps|ci|summary>
Audit Arch/AUR packages: cross-reference installed packages against the Arch Security Tracker, heuristically scan PKGBUILDs and .install hooks for malicious patterns, and match installed packages and pacman history against an indicator-of-compromise feed. The \fBcargo\fR, \fBnode\fR, and \fBdeps\fR subcommands scan project lockfiles (Cargo.lock; bun/pnpm/yarn/npm) against the OSV.dev vulnerability database; \fBci\fR audits GitHub Actions and GitLab CI workflow files for deprecated/outdated constructs. All accept an optional path and \fB--json\fR (exit non-zero on High/Critical).
.TP
.B sign <file|verify|status|config|export-key|list-keys>
Sign and verify files using Azure Key Vault (PE Authenticode, RPM, DEB, Arch packages, and detached OpenPGP). Experimental.
.TP
.B openshell <doctor|status|gateway|sandbox|policy>
Run readiness checks for the OpenShell sandbox runtime (\fBdoctor\fR) and pass commands through to the \fBopenshell\fR CLI for managing gateways, isolated sandboxes, and policy.
.TP
.B dev <rust|zig|go|python|js>
Manage development environments. \fBdev js doctor [PATH]\fR reports installed JavaScript runtimes (Node, Bun, Deno) and package managers (npm, pnpm, yarn, bun) with versions, and detects a project's package manager from its lockfile.
.TP
.B gitlab <status|ci-lint|pipelines|pipeline|trace|runners|mrs|projects|run|retry|cancel>
Client for self-hosted GitLab and gitlab.com. Read-only: verify connectivity and authentication (\fBstatus\fR), validate a CI file via the CI Lint API (\fBci-lint [FILE]\fR), list recent pipelines (\fBpipelines\fR), show one pipeline and its jobs (\fBpipeline <ID>\fR), print a job log (\fBtrace <JOB>\fR), list CI runners (\fBrunners\fR), open merge requests (\fBmrs\fR, alias \fBmr\fR), and member projects (\fBprojects\fR). Write actions honor \fB--dry-run\fR/\fB--yes\fR: trigger a pipeline (\fBrun [REF]\fR), retry (\fBretry <ID>\fR), or cancel (\fBcancel <ID>\fR) one. Most subcommands need \fB[gitlab].project\fR set. The token resolves from \fBGITLAB_TOKEN\fR, then \fBGHOSTCTL_GITLAB_TOKEN\fR, then \fB[gitlab].token\fR; configured under \fB[gitlab]\fR.
.SH COMPLETIONS
.TP
.B ghostctl completion bash
Generate bash completion script.
.TP
.B ghostctl completion zsh
Generate zsh completion script.
.TP
.B ghostctl completion fish
Generate fish completion script.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/ghostctl/logs/history.log
Default activity history log on Linux systems with an XDG state directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/ghostctl/support/
Default support bundle output directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
Run \fBghostctl --help\fR and \fBghostctl <command> --help\fR for the live command reference.
